---
layout: post
title: "NTS"
date: 2026-05-19
---

### NTS

## Late 1800s

[Theodor Meynert](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theodor_Meynert), 1833-1892, German-Austrian psychiatrist, neuropathologist, and anatomist, according to the book ["The Role of the Nucleus of the Solitary Tract in Gustatory Processing"](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1840/), he is the earliest author to name the tract the solitäre Bündel (solitary bundle) in the book "Handbuch der Lehre von den Geweben des Menschen und der Thiere (Handbook of the Doctrine of the Tissues of Humans and Animals, edited by Salomon Stricker)", Chapter 31, Vom Gehirne Aee Säugethiere, The Brains of Mammals, page 789, published in 1872. 

Yet, [Jacob Augustus Lockhart Clarke](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jacob_Lockhart_Clarke), [profile](https://makingscience.royalsociety.org/people/na3687/jacob-augustus-lockhart-clarke) from Royal Society, 1817-1880, British physiologist and neurologist who is primarily known for his studies of the brain and the spinal cord, provided the first description of the contribution of the glossopharyngeal nerve to the Solitary tract (The Role of the Nucleus of the Solitary Tract in Gustatory Processing).

[Benedikt Stilling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benedict_Stilling), 1810-1879, a German anatomist, In 1840 he made first mention of vasomotor nerves in a treatise titled Physiologisch-pathologische und medicinisch-praktische Untersuchungen über die Spinal-Irritation. Also, he is remembered for introducing a procedure of serial-section portrayal (thin slicing) of spinal cord specimens for histological study.

[Mihály Lenhossék](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mih%C3%A1ly_Lenhoss%C3%A9k), named often given as Michael von Lenhossék,1863-1937, was a Hungarian anatomist and histologist, he coined the word "Astrocyte" to describe the star-shaped glial cells in the central nervous system, combining the Greek word astron (star) with kytos (hollow receptacle or cell) in 1893.

[Arthur van (or Van) Gehuchten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_van_Gehuchten), 1861-1914, was a Belgian anatomist.

[Heinrich Wilhelm Gottfried von Waldeyer-Hartz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heinrich_Wilhelm_Gottfried_von_Waldeyer-Hartz), 1836-1921, was a German anatomist, known for summarizing neuron theory and for naming the chromosome,  and for coining the term "neuron" to describe the basic structural unit of the nervous system.

[Camillo Golgi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camillo_Golgi), 1843-1926, was an Italian biologist and pathologist who was awarded the 1906 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his works on the central nervous system, and Golgi's staining. In early 1873, he discovered a method of staining nervous tissue that would stain a limited number of cells at random in their entirety. He first treated the tissue with potassium dichromate to harden it, and then with silver nitrate. Under the microscope, the outline of the neuron became distinct from the surrounding tissue and cells. The silver chromate precipitate, as a reaction product, selectively stains only some cellular components randomly, sparing other cell parts. The silver chromate particles create a stark black deposit on the soma (nerve cell body) as well as on the axon and all dendrites, providing an exceedingly clear and well-contrasted picture of neuron against a yellow background. This makes it easier to trace the structure of the nerve cells in the brain for the first time.

[Santiago Ramón y Cajal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santiago_Ram%C3%B3n_y_Cajal), 1852-1934, was a Spanish neuroscientist, pathologist, and histologist specialising in neuroanatomy, and the central nervous system. He and Camillo Golgi received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1906. [Cajal Club](https://www.cajalclub.org/).





## 1900s
**Frederick Robert Miller**. 1881-1967. Was a professor in the Department of physiology, University of Western Ontario, London, Canada. [More info](https://www.jstor.org/stable/769302?seq=12).

*THE CARDIO-INHIBITORY CENTER*, Frederick Robert Miller and J. T. Bowman, American Journal of Physiology-Legacy Content 1915 39:2, 149-153 DOI:10.1152/ajplegacy.1915.39.2.149. This paper shown that the dorsal vagus nucleus is the source of cardio-inhibitory center, using unipolar faradisation with the stimulating electrode to stimulate and apply current in the anesthetized dog's surface of the dorsal vagus nucleus the "NTS" and surrounding regions, blood-pressure in the carotid artery was recorded by a Hurthle manometer. Results were following: cardiac inhibition was obsersed when stimulating on dorsal vagus nucleus, but not mesially or laterally to the nucleus. Inhibition effect was more stronger rostral than caudal NTS region. 

Miller, F. R., (1910), *On gastric sensation*. The Journal of Physiology, 41 doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.1910.sp001410. This paper shown that vomiting reflex, characterized by the contractions of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, was initiated in anesthetized cat by perfusing of 5% mustard (contains Allyl isothiocyanate) solution into the stomach, immediately the respirations were increased in rate and force and tongue and swallowing movements, accompanied by salivation, were induced, whilst after an interval of 1-3 minutes. Vagatomy around esophagus below diaphragm abolished the vomiting reflex, but the splanchnics division did not abolish the vomiting reflex. The paper also shown that in many instances impulses from each stomach nerve were transmitted by both vagus nerves. 

*CARDIAC INHIBITION DURING THE VOMITING EVOKED BY STIMULATION OF THE GASTRIC VAGUS* F. R. Miller, American Journal of Physiology-Legacy Content 1915 37:2, 240-242 10.1152/ajplegacy.1915.37.2.240. This paper shown that in dogs, cardiac inhibition is produced by teh vomiting *pre se* and not by the vagus nerve sitmulation. 

*VISCERO-MOTOR REFLEXES. IV*, Frederick R. Miller and R. A. Waud, American Journal of Physiology-Legacy Content 1925 73:2, 329-340, 10.1152/ajplegacy.1925.73.2.329. This paper used single inudction shocks or the faradic current to stimulate the superior mesenteric nerves in decapitated cat, a single break shock of moderate intensity on the superior mesenteric nerves elicits a short, sharp contraction in the abdominal muscles. The abdominal viscero-motor reflex thus resembles the flexion reflex of the hindleg in its capacity for being excited by a single break shock applied to an affernet nerve. And many stimulation with various current and frequency tested for abdominal reflex and muscule reflexes in this paper.

